[THEME MUSIC]
>>JAY Weidner: Hey, everybody.
I'm Jay Weidner.
And today, we're continuing our
conversation with Jason Rice.
Hey, Jason.
>>JASON RICE: Hello, Jay.
And thank you for having me.
>>JAY: Today, we're going on
a different vein of thought
here, in particular, your
experiences with weapons,
technologies, the incredible
spacesuit that you had.
So let's start out
with the simplest.
What was like, your
basic outfit that they
gave you to fight these wars?
>>RICE: Oh, sure, the
standard uniform consisted of,
you know, BDUs, a
battle defense uniform.
So it was a digicam pattern
of green, forest green,
dark green, grays, whites.
>>JAY: Digicam pattern?
>>RICE: A digicam pattern.
>>JAY: Are you saying
that the suit itself
was a digit projection?
>>RICE: The pattern
on the material
is a heavily pixilated
pattern, is what that means.
>>JAY: Could it be changed?
>>RICE: It could.
It could be changed.
We had uniforms that were
part of our standard issue
that were holographic uniforms,
in which we used for blending
into the background.
You couldn't see a person
wearing one of these uniforms,
unless they moved it.
And then it was a very slight
blur of the background image.
It supposedly concealed our
infrared signatures, our radio
signals, any of the
outputs that we had.
Thankfully, the quantum
entangled communications
systems with our
nanite enhancements
were not picked up.
And so those were,
you know, didn't
pose a problem, but the
holographic uniform systems
that we used out on
combat operations,
especially in planet one posed
a problem, because once you got
more than two of
them in a location,
the enemies could localize on
it, and were able to find us,
even though we were invisible.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: But it had
a helmet system
that included all of the
holographic camouflage systems
so that, you know, basically,
the soldiers and uniforms alike
would disappear.
>>JAY: So when you
say holographic,
it would be like just the
samples, the background?
>>RICE: It's not that it is
projecting what's behind,
so much as it is
creating a field that
is slightly out of phase with
the dimension, this existence.
If you can think back to
the Philadelphia Experiment,
in the relocation
of the naval ship,
they phased it out of this
existence to make it disappear.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: Well, this is a
progression of that technology
down to a man-size unit, so that
it wasn't a complete phase out,
but it was a partial phase
out, enough of a phase out
that a light was
able to pass through.
And so the person
appeared to disappear.
>>JAY: Well, that would give you
great advantage I would think.
>>RICE: An incredible advantage.
>>JAY: What was it like
walking around being invisible?
>>RICE: We had some fun with it.
In fact, the when first learning
how to use it back at the FIG--
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: --some of the
really stealthy people
could get close enough that
they could blow on your ear
without you ever knowing
that they were there.
It's an incredible tool
and unbelievably helpful.
The other thing is that if you
know what you're looking for,
you can see the phase
difference show up.
And you'd be able to see
it if somebody is moving,
and that included using
them while airborne, as well
as during drops.
>>JAY: So I mean, if you have
this technology down to a level
that it can make a
single man invisible,
then there must be these
cloaking devices on ships too.
>>RICE: Yes, if they are
able to miniaturize it
enough down to an
individual person,
and seeing it on other vehicles,
some of the larger transport
vehicles for equipment
and materials,
as well as some of the tanks,
some of the other APCs,
they have them all the way
down on anything and everything
that they need to have
disappear, they can use it.
Now, that also
means that it's also
available for those
in other SSP programs,
which includes
cabal, which includes
certain members of corporations,
certain members of the elites
that want to have
access to that.
They can have access
and use it, which
is what's used on some
of the aircraft that
are flying around our
skies this very moment.
>>JAY: Former Naval
engineer, Bill Tompkins,
told me that if they turned
off their cloaking devices,
you would see the whole
sky full of ships.
>>RICE: All over the place.
>>JAY: Yeah.
So that's amazing.
>>RICE: Yeah, imagine what
a surprise that would be.
>>JAY: What other things
did this suit offer you
besides invisibility?
>>RICE: This
particular modification
was targeted specifically for
the holographic invisibility.
>>JAY: Did you have
enhanced strength with it?
Or did it have any
protection capabilities?
>>RICE: Not in addition to
the normal suit capabilities,
which were already very high.
>>JAY: What does that mean?
>>RICE: The standard
combat suits
that we had was based on several
systems that had to be working
in concert with each other.
The underlying system
was a base uniform,
in which over all
of the surfaces
there were a multitude of what
appeared to be seams specially
woven together.
They are what's called a
triboelectric material, which
is a polymerized organic
material overlaid
with a conductor.
And the benefits
of this is that--
and this technology
is out there now--
the benefits is that it not
only generates electricity
when you move, but it
also provides feedback
from the body as
a sensor system.
So any time you'd
want to move your arm,
it would notice that
you're moving your arm,
and the powered
armor would move,
because if you didn't have that
feedback system on the inside,
it would be like trying to--
a medieval knight, walk
around with 150 pounds
of armor on his body.
It's going to be really
cumbersome and slow.
And you'd only have the
extremely athletically fit
and muscular guys are
the only ones wearing it
because they're the only ones
that can carry it around.
So this system allows
the close interface
between the line system, the
liner, and the powered armor.
>>JAY: And it did protect you?
>>RICE: It did protect us.
>>JAY: Must have been a certain
limit of what kind of weapons
it would protect you from.
>>RICE: Any small arms fire,
any conventional rifle.
>>JAY: They'll bounce off,
or be absorbed, or what?
>>RICE: Depending on
where it would hit.
If it was on an angle,
then it would bounce off.
If it hit dead on
at close range,
then it would impact
and absorb into it.
>>JAY: Would you be hurt at all
by this, bruised or anything?
>>RICE: You could be bruised
if it hit in the right spot.
>>JAY: Right.
So it could sting you.
>>RICE: Yeah, yeah, you'd
know you've been hit.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: Not only would the--
because the feedback
systems include--
because, you know, if you're
wearing armor and somebody is
plinking at you,
you may hear it,
but where is it coming from?
You know, you're
not going to know.
So the feedback
system on the inside
also gives you a
physical stimulation
in the areas that
you're taking shots.
>>JAY: So if I shot you
and the bullet your suit,
would your suit know where
that bullet came from?
>>RICE: It was also tracking
the ballistics of that, yeah.
>>JAY: So you would now have
a record of where that bullet
came from--
>>RICE: Originated from.
>>JAY: --and you'd be able
to take out that whatever.
>>RICE: Yes, at the push of a
button, you could fire a fire
and forget system that would
be a gravimetric grenade that
would be able to launch itself
from a concealed position
to find where that shot came
from, because you'd already
have it triangulated from the
last known position anyway.
>>JAY: How about
Central Command?
Would they also have
this information
coming in from the suit?
>>RICE: They would have it, as
well as all of your buddies.
So if 15 guys down
the line takes a shot,
and it happens to
be closer to you,
all that information is shared
amongst the combat computers.
And there are three
in each combat system.
There is one on the
inside at the chest level.
And then there are
two in the back.
And it's at the lower area
of the spine, out of the way
as much as possible,
so it provides you
a triple redundant system.
So all of the systems update
each other and communicate.
And it's important,
because the visors,
you don't have any glass or
openings or much to like you
see in Hollywood
with the fancy eye.
There's none of
that, because those
are weak points
for ballistics that
allow for a point of entry.
So it's a solid shield
in front of you.
Anything that you're seeing
is all digitally generated.
>>JAY: Wow.
>>RICE: So anything
that you want to see--
and you have full vision
of the combat, combat
field through smoke,
through night,
through enhanced environments,
reduced environments,
microgravity, environments
that are off planet.
And some of the
training we did on Mars
was involved with harsh
environment training in a suit.
Most of the four
months I spent on Mars
was what we called
life in a suit,
because we spent the entire
time training in the suit.
>>JAY: At first, it was
uncomfortable, naturally.
>>RICE: Oh, it was terrible.
>>JAY: Yeah.
How much did it weigh,
the whole suit, the helmet
and everything?
>>RICE: The whole suit
was about 200 pounds.
>>JAY: 200 pounds?
>>RICE: Empty.
>>JAY: You're kidding.
>>RICE: No.
>>JAY: I mean, you're dragging
200 pounds around on you?
>>RICE: Well, you're
not dragging it,
because it's powered.
So it feels like you're
not wearing anything.
I mean, it's just like
you're wearing a jacket.
>>JAY: And how is it powered?
Is there a battery pack or?
>>RICE: It has its own
battery pack power supply.
And it is an anti-matter
power pack system.
And it's a triple
protected redundant system.
Clearly, if one
of them fails, you
don't want to be
anywhere near it.
But they do have a
lifespan that lasts
about a week between
power cell changes.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: And that's
at full combat.
And you know, at first,
we were like, yeah,
sure it lasts a week.
I don't believe it.
After living through
it and seeing it,
you get confidence
in the systems.
The self-contained
breathing system
is very similar to
a rebreather system
that you'd see on a scuba, in
which it takes the same air.
And it may inject a little bit
of new, but most of the times
it's scrubbing.
It has several modes of
operation, where you can run
in complete self-containment.
You can run with outside
air being filtered.
You can run with
unfiltered outside air.
There's a number
of different ways
that it has its own systems.
It can recharge its system,
if for instance, you're
in a pressurized
atmosphere, and you
don't want to use your
self-contained oxygen,
then you can switch to refill
mode, in which it will start
the process of trying to refill
the tanks, the onboard tanks
that you've got.
So that when you go into say a
zero-g or an out of atmosphere
condition, you have full tanks.
And we could set it up.
In fact, that's what
I did, and most of us
did, was set it up for
automatically going
through these processes
for maintenance,
for recharging, for reminding
us, you know, hey, look,
I'm going through
this recharge process.
OK, and then you move on.
>>JAY: Did the suit interact
with your own nanites?
>>RICE: It sure did.
In fact, the
communication protocols
that we had, part of
the learning process
that we went through
with the nanites involved
the communications.
And you didn't have to talk
in order to communicate,
but what it did require is
focusing on a particular spot
to enable that communications.
And it was a particular spot in
the brain that you focused on.
You don't think about
it when you're talking.
It's an automated process,
but the same thing
happens when you're
communicating with somebody,
and talking to them.
>>JAY: So you're saying
you're almost telepathically
commanding the suit?
>>RICE: Well, the
communications, for instance,
in calling higher and
reporting a combat,
or talking to them
to get resupplies,
we had to learn how to use
that communication system.
And for me, that was
not an easy task,
because you have to
focus on that one spot.
And then you have to turn
down all of the other thoughts
and focus just on the words that
you're going to communicate.
And so in the
beginning, it's kind
of like getting an auto-correct
inappropriate text.
>>JAY: Right, the error message.
>>RICE: It puts the wrong
things into your text
that you don't want.
Well, the communications
were like that.
You know, and the
last thing you want
is to be sending the
equivalent of a mental text
to command that has
just how you feel
about your commander
in the text.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: So we had to learn
how to control that, and not
send extraneous information
in the message stream.
>>JAY: Interesting.
Do you think they're
using this suit technology
in the military today?
>>RICE: I think in special
access programs, you bet.
Without a doubt.
>>JAY: There could be somebody
invisible walking around
even here right now?
>>RICE: Sure.
>>JAY: Wow, that's scary.
>>RICE: All over the
planet, it's kind of scary.
>>JAY: Yeah, it is.
>>RICE: But, you
know, they still
have rules that they
have to play by.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: And I'm very
thankful for that.
But yes.
Are they in the conventional
military and being
used in the
conventional military?
No, because we still have that
whole elite separation thing,
is we've got all
the good things,
and you're not allowed to have
them, because we're special
and you're not.
>>JAY: So the weapons,
are they connected
to communications within
the nanites within you,
and the suit itself?
>>RICE: Some of the
weapons are neural command.
Some of them are
physical commands,
or physical initiations.
There are a wide range
of weapon systems
that we used in the SSP program.
My unit, the third
Panzer division,
we had anti-matter explosives.
And I wanted to go
over a little bit more
on anti-matter, because the
first article that I could find
publicly about the modern
military using anti-matter
was in 1986.
That's the first article
that I could find out
in the public view.
I mean, if you recall, that's
the year that the message was
sent to the cabal
by the Germans,
when they found out
that their mind wipe
technology was stolen.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: Very shortly after
that article came out,
orders came down to that
company on that base,
and incidentally, a
lot of the research
was being done at Eglin
Air Force Base in Florida.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: There was a sequester
of information that came down,
no more talking about it.
OK?
So '86.
Anti-matter, to give you an idea
of the power, the reason why
it is so energetic is
that every gram of matter
has an equal and opposite
gram of anti-matter.
The beauty, if you will
pardon the expression,
of an anti-matter
explosion is that the mass
of both the matter
and anti-matter
is 100% converted to energy.
Now, what does that mean?
To give you an example,
conventional modern nuclear
weapons only operate at
about a 10% efficiency.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: The largest nuke in
the United States's arsenal
only works at about
10% efficient, 10%.
Anti-matter explosions operate
on a 100% efficiency rate.
The little boy bomb that
was used on Hiroshima,
it was about 10 feet long,
weighed about 10,000 pounds,
28 inches in diameter,
and it was 15 kilotons.
The amount of anti-matter
needed to generate
the same amount of
explosion you could get out
of the size of a number two
pencil eraser, half a gram
would generate the same
amount of 15 kilotons
of explosive power.
>>JAY: Did you have like
a projectile that you
could shoot these things with?
>>RICE: Well, the way--
the problem with anti-matter
is that anything that comes
in contact with it--
>>JAY: Boom.
>>RICE: --boom.
You know, modern nuclear
weapons are fail safe,
because the amount of
technology required just
to get the plutonium or
uranium to detonate--
>>JAY: Reach critical.
>>RICE: --reach critical
mass is a tremendous amount
of technology.
>>JAY: Yes, it is.
>>RICE: It's got to be
fired all at the same time.
We won't get into the physics.
>>JAY: Extremely difficult
to build a nuclear bomb.
>>RICE: It's really hard
to get it to go off.
And so it's a very
fail safe weapons
platform, modern
nuclear weapons.
Anti-matter is
just the opposite.
It's a fail dangerous
proposition,
because any time
you come in contact
with anti-matter
and matter, it's
going to get the explosion.
So it means that it
has to have some type
of magnetic containment.
>>JAY: I see.
>>RICE: You can't allow
it to touch anything.
And to give you an
example, 50 billionths
of a gram of anti-matter
is enough explosive power
that's equal to about
4,000 pounds of TNT.
That's how much was used
on the Murray building
in Oklahoma City.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: To give you an idea,
50 billionths of a gram.
And so even amounts smaller than
you can see are significant.
And so what they have
is they've developed
a anti-matter containment
that does not require power,
that is essentially a
stationary magnet system.
And the ones that we had--
>>JAY: And they're very small.
>>RICE: And they're very small.
And in fact, if you
were able to open it--
>>JAY: You wouldn't
even see one.
>>RICE: Yeah, if you
were able to open
one of these
containment systems up
to look for the anti-matter
inside, you wouldn't see it,
because they're microscopic.
So the systems
that we used were--
we called them Cheerios,
because they were
little toruses, real small.
And so it had a very specific
amount of anti-matter in it.
>>JAY: So the containment
system's like a Cheerio?
>>RICE: A torus.
>>JAY: A torus, and
was it going around?
>>RICE: Oh, they
were stationary.
They were static.
>>JAY: Was it inside the hole?
>>RICE: It was inside
the hollowed out--
>>JAY: So sort of like a
centrifuge or something.
>>RICE: Yes.
And so they were able
to contain the field.
>>JAY: Was it racing
around in that thing?
Don't know.
>>RICE: Don't know.
>>JAY: You ought to
open one and find out.
>>RICE: Not the hard way.
These containment
systems had to be
cracked at a very specific point
in order to get them to open.
And it was on the inside
seam of the inner torus.
You could step on it.
You could hit it with a hammer.
They wouldn't open.
>>JAY: Nothing.
>>RICE: The containment
wouldn't breach.
If you activated it at
a very particular spot,
that would breach
the containment
and allow the anti-matter
to come into play.
>>JAY: So there was a geometry
that you had to activate.
>>RICE: Yes.
And there was a certain
way that it had to be--
the containment
had to be broken.
Then, once you
break it, then boom,
you get the magic
that anti-matter is.
>>JAY: So you would like fire
this thing and then it would--
when it hit the thing
it would break open?
>>RICE: Well, we didn't
use them as projectiles.
>>JAY: You didn't?
>>RICE: No.
>>JAY: Were they like grenades?
>>RICE: We used them as
stationary, or emplacement
grenades, or bombs.
We used them in mortars.
We had them in artillery rounds.
We used them for--
>>JAY: I see.
So you'd lay out a
bunch of mortars knowing
if they were advancing at you.
>>RICE: Land mines.
>>JAY: Mines.
And then--
>>RICE: Yes.
>>JAY: --as they step on it.
>>RICE: Command detonation,
motion activated.
>>JAY: Gotcha.
>>RICE: So that was how.
We didn't have the technology
to redevelop and redesign it
into a projectile.
If we did, we would have.
>>JAY: Was that the
first time that you
saw the anti-matter technology?
>>RICE: I had seen
it during training.
>>JAY: Yes.
>>RICE: And had used
it and tested it
and had been able to set some
off to get experience with it.
They want you to get experience,
and to gain confidence
in their containment systems,
because when you're going
and all you need is something
the size of a number two eraser
to create a 15 kiloton
nuclear explosion,
people are a little
worried, you know?
>>JAY: Want to be very careful.
>>RICE: Be very careful.
Well, one of the
first things they did
was they brought it
into the classroom
and hit it with a hammer, the
Cheerios, to show us look,
these containment
systems are solid.
You have to hit it at just the
right place at the right amount
of pressure.
>>JAY: I'm not hitting
one with a hammer.
>>RICE: I'm pretty sure,
at least later when
I was training, it
was a dummy unit,
but I'm pretty sure that
it wasn't a live unit,
but it got the point
across, is that look,
these things are pretty tough.
You're not going to be able
to break them open with
just your bare hands.
But the use of anti-matter
at that particular time
on that planet, was
what turned it for us.
We had more advanced
weapons systems,
some of the more
advanced gravimetrics.
>>JAY: What's a gravimetrics?
>>RICE: It's a great question.
If you can imagine accelerating
the gravity within a field
up to several
thousand gravities,
what would happen to an object?
>>JAY: It would get very heavy.
>>RICE: It would
implode on itself.
>>JAY: Yes.
>>RICE: And so what
we have were crew
served weapons that
shot a one inch diameter
beam that did that.
And so any biologicals that
it came in contact with
would essentially,
implode from that point.
>>JAY: Sort of
like a black hole,
a little miniaturized
black hole?
>>RICE: Yeah, that's a
good way to think of it.
>>JAY: So it sucked everything
into kind of a dimension.
>>RICE: It would cause
it to self-collapse.
>>JAY: Right.
All the atoms and
molecules would--
>>RICE: Yeah, anywhere
that it would pass through.
>>JAY: In a single point.
>>RICE: At a single point.
And so, you know, those were
crew served weapons, again,
something we weren't
allowed to use,
but we weren't
allowed to use it.
They were too afraid, because
they are crew served weapons.
They are man portable.
They could have fallen
into the wrong hands.
And they were too afraid of that
kind of level of technology.
So they held them
back and used them
on strategic division
defensive perimeters, or areas
that they kept a tight
close watch, in which there
were no indigs allowed.
Those were areas that they--
defensive positions that they
were allowed to use them in.
>>JAY: Again, to hide the
technology from the indigenous.
>>RICE: That's correct.
>>JAY: OK, so what did it
look like when one of these
went off?
Did you witness one?
>>RICE: Well, you
can't see the beam,
but our nanite enhancements
allowed us to attune
to the right frequency.
There are two settings.
There's the first setting, which
fires an infrared beam that
allows you to see
where you're shooting,
similar to the infrared
beams that they have
on modern and
conventional weapons
that you can see
with night vision,
but you take the night vision
off, you can't see a thing.
Very similar to that.
>>JAY: Use them in
Iraq and Afghanistan.
>>RICE: That's right.
That allows you to see
where you're shooting
without anybody else seeing it.
This system uses that
infrared beam as a sighting,
so that, you know,
instead of a visual laser,
they use an infrared laser.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: And we all had
the ability to tune
into that frequency,
so we could see it.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: And so you know,
other people, other humans,
other soldiers, civilians,
they couldn't see that,
unless they had night vision.
And that wasn't a
technology they had.
The second stage of the weapon
was the actual firing of it.
>>JAY: And you had night
vision in your suits also?
>>RICE: It was built
into our nanites.
>>JAY: So you guys were awesome.
>>RICE: But you know, since
you can't see with your eyes,
it was built into the suit
as part of the sensor system.
>>JAY: Right.
You have the first
setting, the sighted.
>>RICE: The sighting, and the
second setting is the firing.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: There was a
certain amount of time
that you had to wait
in between shots.
You could get two or
three seconds shot off,
and as many targets as you
could hit in that time.
And then you had to wait--
>>JAY: Did you use
conventional weapons at all?
>>RICE: Yes.
>>JAY: You did?
>>RICE: We did.
>>JAY: So bullets and--
>>RICE: Mm-hmm.
Standard chemical
projectile weapons.
>>JAY: Right.
What percentage did you use
of those weapons as opposed
to these exotic weapons?
>>RICE: We used the standard
conventional weapons
because, you know, again, our
interactions with the indigs
was to train them.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: And so 99%
of the time, we
were using standard
conventional weapons, which
were the chemical explosives,
projectile type, either gas
fed, gas recoil.
There are a couple of other
systems that I won't get into.
>>JAY: Did the suit
protect your hearing
from these conventional weapons?
>>RICE: It did.
>>JAY: That's nice.
That was nice.
I had it built in.
They toned it down a lot,
so you'd hear the pop.
>>JAY: Yeah.
>>RICE: And you were
able to get to a point
where you could recognize
different sounds
and different weapons.
>>JAY: Sure.
Did the suit help
you with recoil?
>>RICE: It did, number
one, because you're
adding a couple of hundred
pounds to your mass.
>>JAY: Sure.
>>RICE: So you know, as a
150-160 pound adult male,
you're now 360 pounds
with the suit on.
And so you're not going to
be seeing or experiencing
nearly the same
amount of recoil.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: The standard
issue weapons
that we had were
the plasma rifle
and what we called
the Gauss rifle, which
are electromagnetic coils.
Pulser rifles is
what we called them.
>>JAY: Right.
What are those like?
What do they do?
>>RICE: The Pulser is not really
expressing what comes out.
That is an expression
of the pulse
of magnetics down the barrel.
And you can find
information on this type
of technology conventionally.
>>JAY: It's like
compressed plasma?
>>RICE: No.
What it is is the
Pulser rifle is a series
of coils along the barrel.
>>JAY: Yeah.
>>RICE: That is powered by
a extremely high amperage
battery that fits into the
handle, advancement materials,
advanced science.
It has a clear
crystalline structure.
And it's filled
with a pink liquid.
>>JAY: Right.
>>RICE: We weren't on a need
to know as far as the materials
and how it was made,
and don't break them.
>>JAY: And when these
pulses would hit whatever,
what would happen?
>>RICE: Well, what would happen
is the specially designed
rounds that went into it, both
we had pistols and rifles,
those rounds were about
the diameter of a number
two pencil lead.
They were sharpened at one end.
And they were hollowed out.
They were made of a
non-corrosive, magnetic
material.
>>JAY: Oh, so they
would actually--
the pulse would shoot
out a physical--
>>RICE: Ballistic, yes.
>>JAY: --object.
>>RICE: It would
send out an object
at incredible velocities.
>>JAY: Wow.
>>RICE: I mean, like partial
fraction light speed.
>>JAY: Really?
>>RICE: So I mean,
you could turn it up,
but we had to dampen them down.
And they were governored,
so that we didn't--
>>JAY: They're too damaging.
>>RICE: --launch
things into orbit.
You know, they didn't
want the Navy to start
taking shots from the ground.
So they had them governored down
to a more manageable velocity.
The science behind
these particular rounds
was that we had a standard round
and we had an enhanced round.
The standard round, upon impact
it would compress and mushroom,
which something the size
of a number two pencil
became something
the size of a 38.
So it was more than enough.
And they generally
had enough velocity
that they would
pass clean through.
So they were damaging enough.
The enhanced rounds, if you can
imagine a miniature umbrella,
from the outside they
don't look any different
than the standard
rounds, but when it hits,
instead of mushrooming down into
a mass, the umbrella opens up.
>>JAY: It opens up
as it's traveling?
>>RICE: When it hits.
>>JAY: Oh, I see.
>>JAY: So it's
activated when it hits.
>>RICE: It activates--
>>JAY: --and bores
a hole I guess.
>>RICE: It opens the umbrella,
because if you think--
if you're pushing an
umbrella aerodynamically
through the air, and
then when it hits then
the umbrella opens
up from the impact.
And even though
the tissue or armor
is going to push back
on that umbrella,
it's still large
enough that it creates
enough damage that's equivalent
to like a 50 caliber.
>>JAY: Wow.
>>RICE: So I mean,
it is devastating.
And again, these
things are accurate out
to several thousand meters.
>>JAY: Is this the
weapon that you
were using when you were
first fighting the werewolves?
>>RICE: No, they wouldn't
let us use that either.
>>JAY: They wouldn't let you.
Nice.
>>RICE: That would have been
the absolute best thing to use,
because we could use those
in our fully automatics.
Same thing on the next
planet, Paladus 3.
It would have been
a game changer.
>>JAY: But they weren't
interested in that.
>>RICE: They weren't
>>JAY: Pulse and a plasma,
is there a difference
between a pulse and a plasma?
>>RICE: There is.
The plasma rifle is based
on a different concept.
It utilizes magnetics
and magnetic coils,
but what it does is instead of
ejecting a projectile at very
high velocities
along a barrel, it
projects a small,
spherical piece of metal.
If you can imagine a
very advanced material
BB, would be a good
equivalent for it.
What it does is,
inside the unit,
the magnetics heated up to a
point, where it is glowing.
The next process is
it purges the barrel
with a noble gas, nitrogen, so
that this now glowing almost
on fire ball doesn't
catch fire in the barrel.
So as soon as this ball comes
out the end of the barrel
it's on fire.
And oh, by the way, it's now
moving at a very high velocity,
as well.
So you get these fire
balls that you're
able to shoot that are
basically molten lead.
Being able to shoot
a plasma ball,
that's why they call
them plasma rifles.
>>JAY: Devastating.
>>RICE: Devastating.
Devastating.
And the high rate of speed
for the rate of fire, nothing,
nothing conventional compares
to either of them, as far as
what it is capable of doing
and how quickly it can lay down
metal.
>>JAY: Wow, sure wouldn't want
to be at the receiving end.
>>RICE: You don't want to be
on the receiving end of that.
There are more weapon
systems that we can go into.
The question is,
do you want to--
I think there's probably one
more that's worth discussing.
>>JAY: Go ahead.
>>RICE: The last one is what was
referred to as the static gun,
the CONPDDP, C-O-N-P-D-D-P,
a condensate phase difference
diffuser platform.
And what it was is it resembled
one of the old television
cameras.
That's what this
thing looked like.
It was about the size
of a small freezer,
about four feet by three
feet by 2 1/2 feet,
multiple edges and
ledges and cooling fins.
This thing was powered
by its own power system.
And what it did was it
created an area in front of it
out to about a half a mile.
This system is only limited
by the amount of power
going to it.
And what it does is
it causes anything
within its path to lose
cohesion at the atomic level.
It basically reverts
everything and anything back
into its native and
original components.
>>JAY: So it disintegrates it.
>>RICE: Disintegrates it.
Anything that is a solid,
anything that's a gas.
We called it the static
gun, because part
of the interface with the
beam itself and the air is
it caused the air to of
course, disassociate.
And the process was a
very low static sound.
Another byproduct was
light from the beam.
The beam itself was a
10 inch diameter beam.
This was a divisional weapon.
This was not something
that was man portable.
There were only five
of them in my division.
And one of them was a
preserve, and the other four
were for divisional
defense, which
means that the main
general's headquarters were
defended by this unit.
>>JAY: This was the
ultimate defense.
>>RICE: Yeah,
there was no armor.
There's nothing that was
capable of stopping it.
The Navy had even
bigger units, even
larger ones that were capable
of longer distances and larger
diameter beams.
>>JAY: How far away could it
hit something and do damage?
>>RICE: Technically, there
is an infinite distance.
You're only limited
by the amount of power
that you had to feed it.
>>JAY: And the curve
of the planet, I guess.
>>RICE: Right.
>>JAY: That is fascinating.
I don't know how anyone can
say that this could be made up.
I suppose somebody will,
but the attention to detail
that you present is amazing.
>>RICE: I suspect that
there will be those that
probably accuse me of that.
I'm just not that creative.
>>JAY: No, and neither
am I. Anyway, Jason,
it's been really a
pleasure having you
on, talking about the cool
suits and weapons that you used.
Thanks.
>>RICE: Thank you for having me.
And I'm really looking forward
to expounding on it again
in the future.
And this is all
about disclosure.
>>JAY: It is.
Thanks for watching.
>>ANNOUNCER: Coming this season
on "Cosmic Disclosure," where
people share their clandestine
involvement with government
agencies, the military,
and secret space programs.
>>: So these things are
all back-reverse engineered
technologies, and
intelligence, and ideas from
extraterrestrials.
>>RICE: That's why they
call it the awakening,
because it's coming to realize
that all the things that you
are lied to and controlled
and manipulated about, we do
have a choice.
>>: Humans have developed this
broad bandwidth of emotion.
A lot of these beings, they
have the same emotion we do,
but it's more intense.